Live debugging (#999)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/config-blocks/livedebugging.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/config-blocks/livedebugging/
description: Learn about the livedebugging configuration block
menuTitle: livedebugging
title: livedebugging block
---

<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Experimental</span>

# livedebugging block

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> `livedebugging` is an optional configuration block that enables the [live debugging feature][debug], which streams real-time data from your components directly to {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`livedebugging` is an optional configuration block that enables the [live debugging feature][debug], which streams real-time data from your components directly to the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} UI.
```

> By default, [live debugging][debug] is disabled and must be explicitly enabled through this configuration block to make the debugging data visible in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, [live debugging][debug] is disabled and must be explicitly enabled through this configuration block to make the debugging data visible in the Alloy UI.
```

Author: This one should be {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}, no?

Reviewer: Yes.... I clicked through too quickly

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> Enabling this feature provides detailed insights into the data flowing through your pipelines via {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s API.

Reviewer 2: I think we should be a little careful about using the word "API" here because we don't have a versioned/documented HTTP API. 

What about "via Alloy's UI."? 

cc @clayton-cornell

Reviewer: Oh  yeah I missed that. :-(  We don't mention the API anywhere else. also we should not use possessive "Alloy's".

Author: fixed via @clayton-cornell's suggestion, thanks!

> Enabling this feature provides detailed insights into the data flowing through your pipelines via {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The live debugging feature uses the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} UI to provide detailed insights into the data flowing through your pipelines.
```

> To ensure that your data remains secure while live debugging is enabled, consider configuring TLS in the [http block][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that your data remains secure while live debugging is enabled, configure TLS in the [http block][].
```

We could be more direct in the statement?
